[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: We could have avoided their
change the way that the favorite things
work, but I'm wondering if it's possible
by moving the handling of adding to
[COUGH] units into the components itself.
So, that we wouldn't pass
the favorite ends and [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Very good question there.
Good good point to raise.
So because I am
a compulsability nerd I am very
careful about doing what you just said.
>> Speaker 2: Except I would say
that's less compulsive
because you're smearing across both.
>> Mike North: So
I want my components to be a way of
viewing and interacting with state.
I don't want them to
actually be responsible for
changing state.
>> Mike North: The idiomatic way of
doing this is to have an action in
the outside world be responsible for that.
And the reason is that as you
start having more components and
you're passing the same data.
It's shared across viewing your repo and
maybe you have a side bar with
your favorite stuff and
it's all bound to the same data,
you don't really want to have all of
these things being able to independently
change it on their own.
>> Speaker 3: So the thing is the doesn't
seem like the right spot for that either.
Unless maybe, okay yeah, okay [INAUDIBLE].
>> Mike North: It's a slightly contrived
example but I'm deliberately.
We could absolutely inject
the service onto this component.
But my belief is that you should almost
look at the component like you would
look at the text input example there.
Where obviously you don't have
data binding with pure HTML but
It's just there to provide a means
of interacting with the state.
And that's really
the primary purpose of this,
to surface it to the user to give
them a means of doing something.
But then when it comes to
actually changing things,
like if we were dealing with records,
I wouldn't want a component to actually
Persist something on it's own.
>> Speaker 4: So, maybe
a user question and I'm fine if you really
wanna talk with this one more offline,
but say you got a component
that takes in model and
some related models as a property and
you wanna keep that...
The one way binding scenario.
How do you duplicate that was
model in the component and
then like urge changes you've
made back with your model?
Like there's a built in
ember way to do that?
>> Mike North: So you want to establish
a one way binding into a component.
>> Speaker 4: So I pass in model I deal
with this address model and component.
>> Mike North: Can you give me
a concrete example?
>> Speaker 4: I can show you a concrete
example can I explain it though.
>> Mike North: So
when we talk about one way
binding the idea is usually that
you just want to render something on the
screen and you don't expect it to change.
That's the typical use case.
And you're sort of opting into a cheaper
way of establishing data bounding
because you don't need two way bounding.
And I would have to understand exactly
what you're trying to do because your
question had baked into it.
How do I get back in sync?
And to me, that says, well, it's probably
not one way binding that you want,
in this case.
It's probably two way binding.
And if it is, but I want to be a purist
>> Speaker 4: If I can and
deal with it even.
>> Mike North: Both tools exist and
both have the appropriate use.
The major pivot from Ember 1.x to
sort of the 2.0 idioms and what we'll
see as a new flavor of component comes
out which I'll talk about later today,
that will be sort of a parallel
track to what I've taught you here.
The idea is you'll have one
way bonding by default.
You'll have to opt in to two way
bonding and the reasoning behind that,
is that very often two
way bonding is overkill.
It's overkill and
overly expensive for what you need.
In this case I probably don't need
to be updating the star count and
the repo count I don't need to connect
back to the data cuz I'm just rendering it
on the screen it's not something that's
gonna be changing in the short term so
one way of binding would be
totally fine to get away with.
So.
>> Speaker 5: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Yeah, so
I'll make sure to touch
on that when I talk about
sort of the future of Ember components as
I get into the forward looking part of
today.
>> Speaker 6: I'm
just curious about best practices
are on documenting past
in attributes versus internal
computer properties.
Cuz I've been in scenarios before where,
somebody has passed in a property which
has collided with an internal
property name of the component.
What's the best way to kinda differentiate
between what properties are able to be
passed in versus the internal
component state?
>> Mike North: I see what you're saying.
So, that's a very good point there.
So if we go back to repos,
and please correct me
if I'm off track in terms of
understanding what you're talking about.
In addition to specifying the properties I
intend to use, I could also do something
like this.
>> Mike North: So,
I can pass data into the component,
and I'm actually gonna be setting this
property's initial value,
when the component's instantiated.
And internally,
the component could be using this here.
So I typically will just underscore
things because that means
private typically and
you gotta just catch it in a code review.
If you see something like this,
like that is a sure sign that you probably
shouldn't be doing what you're doing.
So anything that's important
to my component's operation.
But not necessarily
something I want to include
in the contract with the outside world,
I will indicate
via underscoring it that it's private-ish.
>> Speaker 6: Do you know if there's
any plans in the works for
bringing array prop types?
Type of thing where you're actually
specifying these properties and
these alone can everywhere passed in?
>> Mike North: I don't know,
if there's plan to do it.
There is a way to respond to
undefined properties, right,
to a property that's not defined yet.
>> Mike North: There's
a hook that you can customize there to
raise a warning if something happened.
And there are also hooks where you
can ensure that everything's sort of
is in the correct initial state before you
sort of spin up and struggling but that's
absolutely a valid concern there and from
a documentation standpoint I think this is
probably the best answer we have today.
>> Speaker 7: Couple from online
this might be similar to what
You're covering this now but
when should you use yield
versus passing attributes and
having the HTML inside the component .hps?
>> Mike North: Good question.
Okay.
So, covering yield here.
So one use of yield is,
when you use a component in black form.
So, in this case, if I did this and
had.
>> Mike North: I don't
know how to make it reasonable,
in this example,
here.
>> Mike North: So,
you can see that we've actually been able
to takes an arbitrary chunk of HTML and
handle bars and
place it into the component itself.
And just to convince you guys,
this is actually inside.
This is our li, right?
And so we've actually,
we're inside the component and
the reason it's been placed there
is because yield is up here.
So if I move that down this is kind
of a similar concept to outlet.
This is where the content that's
passed in via your block goes.
So this is one use of yield.
Other uses of yield including building
like a custom each kind of thing.
Where if you were to
have something like this,
this is item
>> Mike North: and yield the item.
Can you had make something like my-list
as listItem.
>> Mike North: And then do.
So essentially you can customize
a collection of objects this way if you
yield, from within an each that's defined
inside your component, you're essentially
making that local variable that's inside
the scope on a per iteration basis.
You're exposing that to
the outside world and so
you can just define something like this.
And you end up with an each-ish
thing that will render.
>> Mike North: Yep, hasBlock,
it's just a way of detecting how
your component's being consumed.
It's just a property that's available so
you can do if hasBlock and
then do something.
>> Mike North: So,
if you're building an add on and you
wanna support in line use and block use.
And you might have specific
things that happen when
You need to validate
things that are passed in.
This is all the stuff that
you'll wanna study more deeply.
For the most part, what I see is
people designing components to
be used in a singular way.
One Potential difference from that
would be something like this.
Where I could use the block form of linkto
instead of the inline form.
>> Mike North: So
this is a great example of has block.
>> Mike North: I want to just yield.
Right, just spit out
whatever's in the block.
Otherwise, the name of the repo.
>> Mike North: And
then we're just going to
delete all the sample stuff.
So changing the component in this way,
like we'll We will still
if we use it inline we'll
get exactly what we expect.
We also have the option
of using it in block
form
>> Mike North: what
did we call it name Name.
So this will actually provide
a totally equivalent result.
But now we have the ability to
customize it by styling it in some way.
And so it's sort of like,
if there's a primary piece of text
you'll usually have, either the two
things right next to each other like
passing in text as an attribute or
the yield and in this case you can say
that if you are in block mode do this
otherwise fall back to a default.
Just remember you only have one yield and
even in the W3C
web component speck this
is a major lacking thing.
The fact that projecting
content into a component
there is not a good story
really anywhere for that.
So use your yield wisely,
you only have one.
Anything else you are going to
pass in through an attribute.
Or pass in a view itself.
Pass in a component itself and then render
the component within the other component.
Or do something hacky which will probably
break in future versions of Ember.
>> Speaker 4: If you did put two yields
in would you get the same content twice or
would you get an error?
Or is that undefined?
>> Mike North: You get the same content
twice but
Having asked people who are working
in this area of Ember, I've been told,
don't count on that continuing to work.
>> Speaker 4: Undefined, got it.
>> Mike North: So, it happens to work.
>> Speaker 4: It's implementation
specific, but
It's not defined by the spec but
it's implementation or done a part.
>> Mike North: It will always
yield the content twice right now.
It has to be.
>> Speaker 4: Right.
>> Mike North: With the component.
>> Speaker 4: That's because it's
implemented that way but.
And to find the philosophical sense maybe.
>> Mike North: Yeah.
Exactly.
All right.
Any other questions?
Yes.
>> Speaker 7: Yeah, there's one more.
Are there a list of system actions?
I noticed that you're
using error some more, but
you didn't manually raise it.
>> Mike North: A list of system actions.
Error is gonna be handled
by the error substate.
Loading as it relates to
the loading substate.
>> Speaker 10: Maybe they're asking where
is that list?
>> Mike North: I don't
believe there's a comprehensive list.
You can look at the documentation for
ember.route because that is the object
that those actions relate to.
I believe those are the only two
that are listed currently but
that is the page to track for
that kind of thing.